Hey guys today's video is going to be
very useful for both insurance agents and customers.
For example, whenever you think of comparing
any product or service,
your objective is only one that you
want to get the best product and service in the world and you want to get the
best service and the best
product at the cheapest price.  But do
you always get the best service
and the best product after comparing?  No Fox, that would never happen.
If you are
not comparing the right products
or have taken too many options
in comparison, then you get confused.  There
is no use in that comparison.
Comparison should always be between two equal products
and two best products.
And in today's video, I have
brought to you a comparison of two health insurance
plans.  The first is Nivapa
Reshore 3.0 which was launched in 2025.  And the
second would be the ICC LBR's Elevate Plan.  This
is a very famous plan.  It was launched in 2024.
After that many updates were made in it.  If you
watch the video till the end, you will
understand it completely and
subscribe to the channel and also press the bell icon.
[Music]
Look, I'm going to compare Fox Health Insurance to the
insurance company itself
because nothing can be done without it.  If
you go to the hospital, the
insurance company will be the first person to help you.  No plan,
no future is going to be useful.  And
in my opinion, the definition of a best health insurance
plan is completely different.  The
company which goes to the hospital and gives you a hassle free claim is the
best.  It doesn't matter how much premium it charges or
what features it offers.
But still,
before making any comparison, let us first see what the
insurance companies say.
Talking about NIVAPA here, their
Incurred Claim Ratio is 61.22.  I don't have much faith in claim settlement.
And ICC LBA has an incurred claims
ratio of 82.24.  Incred Claim Ratio As
you know, I have explained to you in all my videos
that the claim settlement by the insurance
company against the total premium received by the insurance company is
called Incred Claim Ratio.  Talking about solvency ratio,
solvency ratio means
how much money or assets a company has against the total liabilities it has incurred.  So, the price
of Nivapa is three and that
of ICI LBRD is 2.69, almost similar.  Network
Hospital is near 11,000 Nivapa and
near 15,000 plus ICICI LBA.   The
reimbursement claim process for both the policies
is online for both the companies.  You
can process the claim by going through the link of the app.
Cashless is almost the same for everyone
and hospitals are also almost similar.
Now let us see
what the unique features of these companies say?
That is, what is USP?  Which we
call unique selling points.  So Niwapa
and ICIC LBA have one thing in common.  Niva BPA
says that it will provide cover for 145 diseases
from day one.  You log in to the policy.
You should declare your illness.
From there you will get a mail that
you have to give this much loading for coverage from day one.
You will get coverage from Day One.
ICC is a little different in Lomard.   There
is a jump start.  You have to opt for this at the very beginning while
logging in to the policy.
And this is for five diseases.
Hypertension, diabetes, asthma and
hyperlipidemia.  Hyperlipidemia means
higher cholesterol.  If you already have these diseases
then you have to take Jump Start
and the policy will be issued to you.  These
diseases will be covered from 31 days.
After that comes the power booster followed by icemard.
Power booster means whatever sum you choose.
After purchasing the Power Booster, it will be
added every year for life.  That means the
policy is worth Rs 10 lakh.  20 30 40 50 60
Your life time will keep increasing.  If
we talk about Neev Bhup, he has
Lock the Clock.  With Lock the Clock entry, the
age will be locked and the
premium will not increase until a claim is made.
But only the edge band premium.
If you talk about inflation then the premium is bound to
increase.  Lock the clock is
not in ICC Low.  After that let
us see what additional features Niva has?
Look boss, there are many add-ons in this plan of Nivapa
i.e. Rece 3.0.
I'm just talking about the work add-ons.
I am not going to tell you about unnecessary add ons.  Then
there's Borderless.
Borderless means
you can get treatment even outside India.  You will have the option to choose from some specific
diseases as well as any other diseases.
Two hours of hospitalization
is covered in both policies.  Also in Niva Bupa and let us talk about
ICC Lo LBA's Elevate plan
also.  Unlimited restoration for the same person and same
illness is available in ICC's Elite
plan.  But if I talk about Reshore 3.0, then the
sum assured there
is unlimited, so it is
not applicable at all.  Apart from that, ICC Low's Elevate
plan has Infinite Care.  That means, if
you are not taking unlimited sum assured,
then you can take unlimited claim once in your life by taking infinite.
You will choose when to take it.  You can invest personal accident
hospital cash in any policy.  You
can apply it in this also.  The annual
aggregated deductible options
available here start from ₹10,000 and you have the
option of annual aggregated deductible up to ₹5 lakh.  You
can reduce the premium to a great extent by taking it.  Now let's talk about
Neevpar Resort 3.0, the main USP is
unlimited sum assured.  He says that when
he launched this plan, he had
only one option of unlimited sum
assured.  After that, they
added ₹1 lakh and ₹1 lakh, details of which are yet to reach
us.  But this
plan was made exclusively for unlimited time
only.  Similarly, if I
talk about IC Lamb, they have multiple options starting from ₹5 lakh with
time
limit, where
you will also get the option of unlimited time limit.  Rest the
minimum entry age is 18 years in both the policies
and a person of any age can take it.   There is
no age restriction on entry.  The policy tenure is
5 years in both the policies.
Whenever you choose a policy for more than a year,
you get a discount.  Here the
policy premium can be paid in lump sum for 5 years.  You
get a good discount
and it also beats inflation because
whenever the insurance company
increases the premium according to inflation, your premium will not increase for 5 years.
Variants are housed in Niwapa.
They have kept four variants: Classic, Select,
Elite and Black.  While ICC is not in the LBA's elevated
plan.  Well, among these four
variants in Risho 2 3.0,
I do not recommend Classic and Select to anyone
because there is a
capping on room rent there.  If you talk about Classic, it will
give you a general ward and if you
talk about Select, it will
give you a team insurance room.  You should
not buy the classic at all.  When you are taking a health
insurance policy with unlimited sum
assured, then you will
not stay in the general ward after that.  It is a very clear
thing and I will not even advise you for twin sharing
because
twin sharing rooms are
not available in many hospitals.  So at least you have to
take Elite.  There you will
get single private AC room and deluxe room.
In black the insurance company says that
you will also get a sweet room.  Family size
Niva buar 3. Two adult four kid.  Whereas only
two adults and three kids will be able to stay inside the Elevate.
Talking about room rent,
as I have already told you, there
is a cap in two variants and there is no cap in the rest.
But ICC Lo's Elevate has an
inbuilt cap of single private AC room which
you can also reduce.  That means you
can also come on twin sharing and
can also choose any room category.  It's your choice.
ICU ICCU There is no capping.
Pre-hospitalization and post-hospitalization ratios of
60 and 180 are within the 3.0 ratio of NIVP
and 90 and 180 are within the Elevate plan.
That's where Elevate gets a little better.
Now let's talk about day care
treatment, modern treatment.  So there
is no multiple capping sublimit.  But there is a
capping of Rs 1 lakh in Classic and Select.
So I said again that I have asked
you to avoid these two variants.
E-consultation is unlimited in NIBA but
you will have to take tele-consultation there in Elevate
with add-on. Restoration Niwash
3.0 is not required at all because
you will get unlimited sum assured. In Elevate, there is
ambulance for same person same illness. There is no
capping. Air ambulance for road ambulance will be available
in both the policies with add-on.
You will get cap of 5 lakhs in
Elite and Black and
up to sum assured in Elevate. No claim
bonus is not required in Rewards 3.0
because there is unlimited sum assured there, that is,
in Elevate it goes up to 20% yearly and maximum up
to 100.  Home care domiciliary
is covered in both.  Up to some assured cover.   There is
no capping.  The waiting period for PED is
36 months in both the policies.  And
this can be reduced.  By
paying you additional premium.  Annual health checkup is included
in both the policies.  These are listed on S and
you will get them with add ons.  If you need it then
take it, otherwise don't take it.  Alternative
treatment is covered in both up to sum
assured. There is no maternity cover in ReShord 3.0
but in Elevate you can take it with add on up
to maximum ₹1 lakh, you can get maternity cover up to ₹1 lakh
and along with that you
can reduce the waiting period of 2 years to one year.
Wellness program is available in both the policies,
up to 30% deductible, I have already told
you this.  So these were the
basic features plus special features of both the plans.
I am not telling you about all the add-ons because
not all add-ons are useful.
I have told you all the basic main features which are useful.
Now let us
also look at the premiums because the
most important thing is how much it will burden the boss's pocket,
money is very important.
Neeva Shard 3.40 Years Age Two to
Adult to Kid Delhi NCR
Unlimited Sum Assured Black Variant in
which I have added consumable writer.
39400 White Economical at the same age at 46 will fetch the
same premium.  ₹49,752
i.e. unlimited sum assured.  FOC
ICMA Daily Plan Here Unlimited Sum
Assured Same Age Group 40 Years ₹7139
This is a bit expensive.  This will be the premium at the age of 46.
means it is almost double.  But now it is up to
you to decide whether it suits your pocket or not.
What do the fundamentals of an insurance company say
?  What do the rest of the features say and
what do they say premium.
After analyzing all the things together, then you have to decide
which one is better for you, which one
suits you.  If you have any special queries or
want to know something else, then you
can comment me in the comment box
or you can also call us.  I will meet
you in my next video.  Till then
Jai Hind, Jai